# EngineeringReasoningCourse

All statistical analysis was performed in R v4.3.1. Bayesian estimation using the BEST (Bayesian Estimation Supersedes the t Test) method developed by John K. Kruschke was used to estimate the size of the effect the intervention course had on student parameters such as first-semester cumulative GPA (Kruschke, 2013). Computing Bayesian posterior probability distributions for the difference in means (i.e. the size of the effect our intervention has on student success metrics) of these parameters generates results more easily interpreted than traditional null hypothesis significance testing. The distribution provides complete information of the credible values of the effect size and allows us to estimate the probability that the true difference in the means between groups is above a comparison value (0 in this cases). Data is reported as a 95% Highest Density Interval (HDI) along with a probability of the parameter value being greater than 0. 

The BEST package (v0.5.4) in R was used to perform the BEST analysis. The package assumes a t distribution with heavier tails as a prior for the data in order to better account for outliers when compared to a normal distribution. Modification to the standard t distribution was made by inputting the mean and standard deviation of the control group into the BESTmcmc() command to better inform the prior distribution. All other priors were left in their default state (broad uniform priors for sigma and a shifted-exponential prior for nu) as described by Kruschke (Kruschke, 2013). The first 1000 steps of each Markov Chain Monte Carlo chain are discarded as a burn-in period and each chain contains 1× 10^5 steps.
